Chapter Four: Becoming Physically Fit

	Basic Concepts
			Physical Fitness
					A set of attributes that people have or achieve that 
						relates to the ability to perform physical activity.
			Phyical Activity
					Any bodily movement produced by skeletal muscles 
						that results in energy expenditure.
			Excercise (Subset of Physical Activity)
					Planned, structured, and repetitive activity designed 
						to improve or maintain physical fitness.
	Five Components of Physical Fitness
			Cardiorespiratory Endurance
					Aerobic vs anaerobic exercise
			Muscular Strength
			Muscular Endurance
			Flexibility
			Body Composition
	Cardiorespiratory Endurance
			Ability to the heart, lungs, and blood vessels to process and 
				transport oxygen over a period of time.
			Produced by exercise involving continuous, reptitive movements.
					Examples: brisk walking, jogging, cycling
			Aerobic (with oxygen) energy production
			Structural and Functional Benefits
	Muscular Fitness
			Strength: Ability to contract skeletal muscles to a maximal level.
			Endurance: Ability to contract skeletal muscles repeatedly over a long period of time.
			Improved by performing repeated contractions at less than maximal levels.
	Flexibility and Body Composition
		Flexibility: Ability of your joints to move through an intended range of motion.
		Body Composition: The make-up of the body in terms of muscle, bone, fat, water, and minerals.
				Fitness experts are most concerned with percentages of body fat and fat-free weight.
	Developing a Personalized Fitness Program: Key Principles
		Overload: pLacing increasing amounts of stress or resistance on the body causes changes that improve fitness.
		Specificity: The type of exercise must be specific to the outcome that is targeted for improvement.
		Reversibility (regression): "Use it or lose it
		repetitively
	Cardiorespiratory Endurance Training Factors (w/ Developing Program)
		1) Mode
			Continuous ActivityUsing large muscle groups
			Aerobic in nature
			Enjoyable
			Cross-train and/or vary activities to maintain motivation
		2) Frequency
			3-5 times a week
			More than 5/week will not create further improvement
		3) Intensity
			Target heart rate = Between 65% and 90% of maximum heart rate.
			Max heart rate can be estimated by subtracting your age from 220
		4) Duration
			ACSM recommends 20-90 minutes straight
			The lower the intensity, the longer the duration should be
			
	Muscular Fitness
		Isometric ("same length"): Muscle contraction without movement
		Isotonic ("same tension"): Muscle contraction with movement against a specific fixed resistance throughout the full range of motion
		Isokinetic ("same motion")
		2-3 times a week
		Repetitions: 8-12 over 2-4 sets
		Sufficient resistance to fatigue major muscle groups (legs, arms, shoulders, chest, back)
	Flexibility
		Failure to maintain flexibility can result in reduced range of motion and injury
		Two forms of stretching:
			Static: Slow lengthening of a muscle group to an extended stretch followed by a hold of the extended position for 15-60 seconds
				Recommended
			Ballistic: A bouncing form of stretching in which a muscle group is lengthened repetitively done.
	Body Composition
		Measurement of percent body fat is often included in a fitness program.
		To reduce body fat, an exercise program should maximize caloric expenditure
			ACSM recommends exercise sessions expending 2000 calories per week.
	